

===== FILE: UPDATED EMPR 270 Assignment Instructions Winter 2026.pdf =====
PAGES: 8

--- PAGE 1 ---
 1 
 
EMPR 270: ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR  
UPDATED Assignment Instructions – Winter 2026 
Queen’s University  
Professor Jacoba Lilius 
 
 
Weekly Mini-Assignments        5%   
Quizzes        7.5% 
Participation in Friday Sessions     7.5% 
Concept Application Papers      25% 
Team Organizational Analysis Project   20% 
Team Member Contribution       5%   
Final Exam       30% 
 
 
Weekly Mini-Assignments (5%) (due Thursdays by 10 PM) 
 
Throughout the term, you will be asked to  complete weekly Mini-Assignments, designed to help 
you to both 1) deepen your learning and engagement with the course material and 2) build 
connections with a small group of peers who will form your Learning Team.  
 
You will post the Mini-Assignments to a Discussion Forum – the prompt for each will be located 
in the forum itself, starting Monday each week.  
 
In Weeks 1 & 2, this will be an open forum (visible to all class members). After I form Learning 
Teams (Week 3), this forum will be only visible to the members of your Learning Team. My 
hope is that students feel more comfortable posting for a smaller and familiar group; research 
supports a connection between disclosures and strengthened interpersonal connections.  
 
Your Mini-Assignments are worth 5% of your overall course grade. Each Mini-Assignment will 
be graded as either fully complete (if it fulfils the requirements and is turned in by the deadline) 
or incomplete (no credit). At the end of t he semester, I will add up the credit points to determine 
your overall Mini-Assignments grade. (For instance, if you complete all the Mini-Assignments, 
you will earn the full 5%; if you complete 9 out of 12 , you will earn 3.75%, and so forth).  
 
 
Quizzes (7.5%) (During some Friday sessions)  
 
Multiple-choice quizzes during selected Friday sessions will test your understanding of key 
course concepts from that week’s readings. The quizzes will be time-limited (~5 questions in 10 
minutes) to mimic the conditions for the final exam. Some multiple-choice questions on the final 
exam will be drawn from the pool of weekly quiz questions. 
  
 
 
--- PAGE 2 ---
 2 
Participation in Friday’s Interactive Class Sessions (7.5%)  
 
While the Monday and Wednesday class sessions will be primarily lecture-based, our Friday 
class session will be more interactive, aimed to deepen connections between the weekly topic 
and your lived experience, and may involve connecting with your Learning Team (assigned in 
Week 3). Regular attendance is critical for opportunities to go beyond the textbook and build 
connections with your Learning Team. That said, you can miss one week without loss of 
participation credit. If you do need to miss a Friday session after your Learning Team has been 
formed (Week 3 forward), be sure to reach out to your team members in advance. This will be 
important as students begin to form connections and impressions of each other’s level of 
engagement in the course and as team members – (over)communication is key! 
 
 
Concept Application Papers (25% total) 
 
The purpose of these two short concept application papers is to help you strengthen your abilities 
to think and write about OB concepts and  learn to apply these concepts to “real-world” 
situations. There is a great deal of flexibility built-in to these assignments to allow you to focus 
on concepts and situations that are of particular interest to you at this time. You should be brief 
but complete: although short, your papers must convey meaningful analysis and integration of 
course concepts and examples.  
 
Remember to focus on a single course concept – it should be clearly identified at the outset of the 
analysis as well as noted on your cover page. Keeping a tight focus on one concept will allow 
you to provide the appropriate depth of analysis.  
 
Formatting Requirements: Please use the following formatting for all written assignments: 
Times New Roman/12-point font, double spaced, 1 -inch margins, and page numbers. Include a 
separate title page with your name, the course, the assignment, and the date) as well as explicitly 
noting the single concept that you have chosen for the analysis.  
Citing Sources: Any time you incorporate ideas or concepts that are not your own, make sure 
that you cite the source. Please use APA formatting for in-text citations and the full reference list 
of citations, provided in a separate reference page. Citation is key both to demonstrate 
connections to course content and to support academic integrity.  For the Module 2 paper, note 
the additional requirement to provide an annotation re: reliability of your source.  
Assignment Length: The word count for your submission should be close to the maximum 
without going over. Ensuring that you hit the length requirements of your audience is always 
part of effective writing and the evaluation of your work, be it an academic assignment, a 
report for your manager, an op -ed column, or a grant application. A word count gives you a 
guideline for the appropriate length and level of detail that you provide, as well as the hard 
limit. The maximum word count for the body of the Concept Application Papers is 750 words 
total, but with the analysis should have relatively greater length  (see below).  
--- PAGE 3 ---
 3 
Generative AI Use: As we discussed in our Week 1 Friday session, Gen AI tools can be helpful 
partners for some tasks and actually support learning – but significantly impede learning in 
others, with short-term and longer-term impact. I have come to see a key part of my job as an 
instructor (as AI tools evolve and become part of the reality of most people’s workflows) is to 
help students wrestle with what responsible, learning-supportive use looks like within the context 
of academic coursework (and providing supported and structured opportunities for use where 
appropriate) and to be able to see when learning would be impeded. I am thinking this through 
with you, real-time!  
 
For these concept application papers, I have played around with standard AI platforms and can 
see that AI use for either paper will absolutely impede the intended learning. Here, t he learning is 
in the process of reflecting on personal experiences (Module 1 CA Paper) and reviewing 
newsworthy events from the last year to identify a relevant organizational situation (Module 2 
CA Paper), as well as deciding on the most relevant OB concept from that module. As soon as 
you involve Gen AI, this learning is impeded. I attempted to use these platforms in a limited way 
(e.g., to ask for help in brainstorming a relevant personal situation or to help locate a news article 
that reflected a concept), and in both cases, the “helpfulness” baked into the design of  Gen AI 
meant that analysis is provided as part of the response. Because Gen AI is doing the work and 
“thinking” for you, this will impede rather than support your learning and therefore AI tools are 
not permitted for these Concept Application assignments. 
 
Evaluation of the Concept Application Papers 
 
• Context: Is there a clear and succinct summary of the situation with enough detail to 
support the analysis without exceeding length requirements? 
• Analysis: Within length requirements, did the student  clearly explain how a specific 
course concept relates to the situation at hand ? Did they provide examples to support 
arguments? Was the analysis grounded in a single relevant course concept? Was the 
concept clearly identified and defined, applied accurately?  
• Clarity and Quality of Writing: Are ideas presented clearly? Does the paper flow well? 
Is it well-supported through citation and examples?  
• Professionalism and Writing Mechanics: Are there issues with spelling, grammar, 
punctuation, or citation that would interfere with clarity and professionalism? Were all 
instructions followed? Was a reference page included? Does it meet the length 
requirements?  
 
Module 1 Concept Application Paper: Analysis of a Personal Experience (10%) 
Due Friday, February 13 by 10 PM 
 
For this assignment, you will select and analyze a specific personal experience you had in an 
organization in relation to one OB concept from Module 1 (Weeks 2-6). For instance, you might 
write about an encounter with a boss or coach, dealing with a coworker or teammate, or 
interacting with clients/customers. You will then use one OB concept that we have already 
covered in class to analyze your experience. You can use the concept to explain what happened, 
--- PAGE 4 ---
 4 
to evaluate why the situation worked out positively (or less so!), and/or to identify what could 
have been done differently to improve the situation. 
 
For the Module 1 paper, you will not need to use any sources other than the assigned readings for 
the course (i.e., the course textbook).  
 
The personal example that you choose to write about must fit the following criteria: 
• It must be specific and time-bound (e.g., a single encounter or short-term team project, as 
opposed to a general description of working conditions). 
• You must remember the experience clearly (i.e., what happened and what you thought/felt at 
the time). 
• Be highly relevant to the chosen OB concept from Module 1 (Weeks 2-6) that provides 
insight into your experience.   
   
The paper should consist of two parts: 
 
1. Context (150-250 words): The first part should contain a brief summary of your chosen 
personal example. Be sure to include all relevant details that you will use in your analysis 
here.  
2. Analysis (400-500 words): The second part (the more important one) should identify clearly 
how one specific course concept relates to the events/activities that make up your personal 
experience. As noted above, you might use the concept to explain what happened, or to 
evaluate why the situation worked out positively (or less so!), and/or to identify what could 
have been done differently to improve the situation. This analysis must demonstrate that you 
have given the issues in question serious thought and reflect your understanding of the 
chosen course concept. Note that re-summarizing or providing additional details about your 
experience does not count as analysis – students sometimes struggle with this! Connect the 
context with the concept.  
 
Module 2 Concept Application Paper: Current Event Analysis (15%) 
Due Friday March 13 by 10 PM 
 
For this assignment, you will need to find a recent news article about a current organizational 
situation/event, and then analyze the situation described in the article using one OB concept 
from Module 2. For example, you can use the concept to provide a more in-depth explanation of 
what is happening and why, to predict how the situation might unfold,  to offer a counter point to 
what is described in the article, or to think critically about how to address/solve the issue in the 
article. 
 
The article that you chose must fit the following criteria: 
• It must be from a trustworthy, reputable source. Checking your sources has become more 
important than ever in the era of Gen AI inaccuracies and hallucinations, “fake news” and 
difficulty in discerning what is real vs. AI generated content! A helpful resource is the Ad 
Fontes Media bias charts (Home | Ad Fontes Media), with a focus on the level of 
reliability/fact-checking on the y-axis. Include the Reliability score as an annotation to the 
full reference to the article in your reference section. If your news source is not located on 
--- PAGE 5 ---
 5 
this chart, please take steps to evaluate reliability and outline these as an annotation to your 
reference. If you have any questions about whether your source fits this description, please 
contact me before completing the assignment. You will not receive full credit if you use 
sources that do not take steps to ensure accuracy and quality.   
• The article must be current (from the last 12 months – i.e., published before March 13, 2025). 
• It should describe a situation that occurred within the last 12 months or that is 
currently occurring in a real, specific organization. Note: Be careful not to choose 
articles that merely discuss or describe an OB topic (e.g., an article about what makes a 
good leader is not a news article.)  
 
The paper should consist of two parts: 
1. Context (150-250 words): The first part should contain a brief summary of the 
organizational situation described in the article. All of the details that you will need to 
support your analysis should be included here.  
3. Analysis (400-500 words): The second part (the more important one) should identify clearly 
how a specific course concept relates to the events/activities the article addresses. 
Remember that re-summarizing or providing additional details about your experience does 
not count as analysis! Connect the context with the concept .  
 
Your collective grade on these two papers is worth 25% of your overall course grade (10% for 
Module 1 Concept Application and 15% for Module 2 Concept Application Paper). The 
Module 2 paper is weighted more heavily as it involves a research step, and this also allows 
students to use feedback on the Module 1 paper to strengthen their Module 2 submission. 
 
 
Team Project (25%)  
 
• Team Charter (2%) Due Friday, March 6th by 10 PM 
• Team Paper (18%) Due Friday, April 3 by 10 PM 
• Team Member Contribution Evaluation (5%) due Friday April 10th by 10 PM 
 
Overview of Team Project 
 
As we will learn more about in the final part of the course (Module 3), organizations need to be 
able to adapt and change, both proactively and reactively, to internal and external pressures. 
Organizational change processes (Chapter 15), in turn, are shaped in part by an organization’s 
structure (Chapter 13) and culture (Chapter 14). In other words, all organizations have both a 
culture and a structure that constrains and/or enables how that organization can respond to 
external challenges or pressures.  
 
One such key pressure that is emerging real-time is a trend toward bringing employees back to 
the office full-time (“return to office” or RTO) after a long period of working under hybrid or 
remote work arrangements since the COVID -19 pandemic. There is mixed evidence around the 
benefits and drawbacks of an RTO, and the decision to bring employees back full-time is being 
framed by some organizations as a problem to be solved, while others are framing it as an 
opportunity (see Chapter 7 re: the decision-making process).  
--- PAGE 6 ---
 6 
 
Functioning as a mini-consulting firm, your team will first identify an organization that is or has 
been navigating a RTO decision. It can be an organization that has already made the shift or is in 
the process of an RTO. You will have no difficulty identifying relevant private and public sector 
organizations working through this over the last 6-8 months through a quick Google search*! For 
a viable project, you need to know enough about the organization’s approach to be able to make 
some assessment of how effective the decision-making (and change process, if applicable) has 
been. From here, the aim is to analyze how this organization has been constrained and/or enabled 
by its organizational structure and culture in navigating the decision-making and change 
processes. Finally, you will also make recommendations about what the organization could have 
done differently, or do differently  in the future, to improve its approach. 
 
Choose the organization wisely! You need to have enough information about the following:  
 
• How the organization has responded to the trend toward RTO  and how it is being framed 
(a problem or an opportunity) 
• The structure of your organization using the common dimensions of structure ( span of 
control, formalization, centralization) and departmentalization/forms (functional, 
divisional, matrix, etc).  
• Characterizing the culture of the organization - underlying values and assumptions and 
what artifacts led you to that conclusion   
 
*Note: For the team project, using AI tools to identify a focal organization that gives you enough 
information to answer the above questions is an appropriate use of the technology available! If 
you do so, be sure that you do review, fact check, quality assess, and include original sources in 
your paper, as AI tools do not distinguish between higher- and lower-quality sources of 
information. You will also need to provide a full citation for the AI search (reflecting the 
prompts used) as well as cite the original sources.  
 
However, AI tools should NOT be used to conduct the analysis; doing so will absolutely 
interfere with the learning that comes from working through the issues and applying the course 
concepts to this real world scenario.  
 
Instructions for Team Paper 
 
Your paper (2500-3000 words maximum) will contain your team’s final analysis of the 
organization’s approach to RTO, the influence of structure and culture, and any 
recommendations. Papers should be polished, easy to understand, and follow the  same 
formatting guidelines for written assignments outlined for the Concept Application papers: 
(Times New Roman/12 -point font, double spaced, 1 -inch margins, and page numbers ; 
include a separate title page with your name s, the course, the assignment, and the date  
with all sources cited. Any time you incorporate ideas or concepts that are not your own, make 
sure that you cite the source. Please use APA formatting for in-text citations and the full 
reference list of citations, provided in a separate reference page. 
--- PAGE 7 ---
 7 
All team members should contribute to the paper, but it should read as though one person wrote 
it. Be sure to build in time for this part of the editorial process! 
 
Your Team Paper should have the following sections, with length guidelines offered for relative 
emphasis: 
1. Executive Summary (1 page): Provide a brief, succinct overview of your Team Project. Do 
not repeat everything you will cover in the main part of the paper; touch only on the most 
important points. Briefly describe the organization. Summarize 2-3 key points from your 
analysis. B riefly state the main recommendations you are making. Imagine that I only have 
time to read this one page. What would you want me to know?  
2. Main Part of Paper: This part of the paper should contain in-depth information about your 
Team Project, and should include the following sections: 
• Context (3-4 pages): Provide a short description of the organization (what does it do? 
How big is it? Who are the leaders?), what you know about its approach to RTO, and an 
in-depth description of the organizational culture and structure: 
o For structure: How would you characterize the structure of your organization 
using the common dimensions of structure (span of control, formalization, 
centralization) and/or departmentalization/forms (functional, divisional, matrix, 
etc).  
o For culture: How would you characterize the culture of your organization? What 
are the underlying values and assumptions, and what artifacts led you  to that 
conclusion?  
• Analysis (4-5 pages): As with the Concept Application papers, now shift to your analysis 
of how the organization’s structure and culture has shaped the decision around RTO and 
subsequent organizational change efforts. What has been effective/less effective, and why 
(in relation to structure and culture?) Be sure to support your analysis with relevant 
specific course concepts. Clearly state the impact of the organization’s actions on 
relevant stakeholders, again using specific course concepts. 
• Recommendations (~2 pages): Based on your analysis, what recommendations would 
you make? In other words, your recommendations should link clearly to your analysis. 
What changes would you suggest the organization make to improve its response? You are 
a consulting team, so offering recommendations to the company is a key outcome of your 
analysis. This section should draw heavily on course content from Modules 1 and 2.  
 
Evaluation of the Team Paper – things we are looking for as we review the work (see onQ 
for more detailed rubric) 
• Context: Did the team clearly introduce the focal organization, its decision and approach 
around RTO? Did they accurately characterize the organization’s structure and culture 
using concepts from the readings and lectures? Did they provide evidence to back up 
claims? 
• Analysis: Did the team clearly explain how the organization’s structure and culture 
influenced the decision and approach to RTO? Did they provide examples to support 
arguments? Was the analysis grounded in relevant course concepts? Were the concepts 
applied accurately? 
--- PAGE 8 ---
 8 
• Overall Clarity and Quality of Writing: Are ideas presented clearly? Does the paper flow 
well? Is it error free? Does it meet the length requirements? Is it well-supported through 
citation with a reference page included? 
 
 
Final Exam (30%) 
The final exam will take place during the final exam period in April. The final exam will consist 
of True/False and multiple-choice questions and short-answer application questions that may 
require analysis of a short scenario or case. Both types of questions will have been scaffolded by 
the quizzes and written assignments. Remember – some of the multiple-choice questions will be 
drawn from the pool of weekly quiz questions! You can also find the exam from Winter 2022, 
Winter 2023, and Winter 2025 in the Queen’s Exam Bank. 
 
 

===== FILE: UPDATED EMPR 270 Syllabus Winter 2026.pdf =====
PAGES: 9

--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
Introduction to Organizational Behavior 
EMPR 270 
UPDATED Course Syllabus - Winter 2026 
 
Course: EMPR 270 
Course Title: Introduction to Organizational Behavior 
Term: Winter 2026 
Number of credits: 3.0 
Learning hours: 120 
Modality: On-campus  
Instructor: Jacoba Lilius, PhD 
Contact Information: empr270@queensu.ca  
Office Hours: For a quick question, you can usually catch me after class! We can also make an 
appointment.   
 
Class Location: Dupuis Auditorium 
 
Course Schedule(s) and Location 
• Monday (Lecture) 10:30-11:20 AM 
• Wednesday (Lecture) 9:30-10:20 AM 
• Friday (Interactive sessions with credit for participation): 8:30-9:20 AM 
 
 
Course Description 
Organizational behavior, at its heart, is about understanding human behavior as it unfolds within 
a particular organizational context. This understanding will serve you well personally and profes-
sionally throughout your working lives!  
 
This is a survey course in OB where you will be exposed to the “classic” OB topics that span the 
individual-level (personality, perception, bias), the dyadic/group level (motivation, teams, leader-
ship, power and influence) and the organizational level (organizational structure and culture). 
However, we are also living in a particular moment in time that challenges our assumptions 
about key elements of organizational behavior including (but not limited to)  
• How organizations are structured  
• How and where employees work  
• How to motivate employees who are working remotely 
• How to support employees who are struggling to work remotely  
• How to communicate effectively, virtually 
• What effective teamwork looks like… 
And the list goes on! I have tried to design this course so that 1) you learn about the fundamental 
theories of organizational behavior and 2) we can grapple with some of the interesting and im-
portant challenges facing organizations today as the world of work shifts and changes (e.g., post -
pandemic, hybrid work, advances in AI). 
 
--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
Course Learning Outcomes 
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to: 
1) Analyze and explain individual, interpersonal, and group behaviour in organizations using 
key theoretical frameworks 
2) Describe and assess the basic elements of organizational structure and evaluate their impact 
on organizational effectiveness.  
3) Describe and assess the basic elements of organizational culture and evaluate their impact on 
organizational effectiveness.  
4) Explain how to influence change in organizations  
Methods of Assessment and Grading Scheme 
Achievement of the key learning outcomes in this course will be supported and assessed in a va-
riety of ways. An overview is provided here; please see the “EMPR 270 Assignment Instruc-
tions” (posted onQ) for greater detail. 
 
After you review the material for each week’s topics, you will be given the opportunity to 1) test 
your understanding of that week’s content through a quiz  (in-person, during some Friday clas-
ses); 2) deepen and extend your self-awareness and thinking around that topic through a mini-
assignment, and 3) build connection with others in your Learning Team (starting Week 3).  
 
At the end of each of the three modules, you will apply your understanding of key OB concepts 
through concept application papers (Modules 1 and 2) and a team organizational analysis project 
(Module 3).  
 
Finally, your cumulative understanding of course concepts, and ability to apply them to under-
standing organizational behavior, will be assessed by a final exam.  
 
Weekly Mini-Assignments         5%   
Quizzes        7.5% 
Participation in Interactive Sessions (Fridays)  7.5% 
Concept Application Papers     25% 
Team Organizational Analysis Project   20% 
Team Member Contribution       5%   
Final Exam       30% 
 
 
Course Materials/Readings  
All required readings for the course will come from the course textbook (Canadian Organiza-
tional Behavior, 12th Edition by McShane & Warner). Available for purchase ($149.95) or e-
copy rental for 180 Days ($60) through the Queen’s Campus Bookstore.  
 
Supplementary materials will be posted onQ throughout the term for those looking to deepen 
their learning and understanding, but these supplementary materials will not be tested on the 
exam. 
--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
 
Timeline 
Below are the topics and readings for each week. Please see the more detailed “EMPR 270 
Weekly Guide” (posted onQ) for all key readings, activities, and deadlines.  
 
 
Week 
 
Topic 
 
Required Readings  
 
Week 1 Introduction to OB Chapter 1 
Module 1 
Week 2 Individual Differences: Personality, and Values  Chapter 2  
 
Week 3 
 
Perceiving Ourselves and Others  Chapter 3 
 
Week 4 
 
Emotions, Attitudes, and Stress  Chapter 4 
 
Week 5  
 
Motivation: Theoretical Foundations  Chapter 5 
Week 6 Motivation: Applied Performance Practices Chapter 6 
Module 2 
Week 7 
 
Decision-Making & Team Dynamics Chapter 7 & 8 
Week 8 
 
Communication and Conflict 
 
Chapters 9 & 11 
 
Week 9 
 
Power, Influence, and Leadership Chapters 10 & 12 
 
Module 3 
Week 10  
 
Designing Organizational Structures Chapter 13 
Week 11  Understanding Organizational Culture Chapter 14 
 
Week 12  Organizational Change Chapter 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
Assignment Formatting and Reference Requirements  
 
Please use the following formatting for all written assignments:  
• Times New Roman, 12-point font, double spaced, 1 -inch margins, and page numbers.  
• APA formatting 
• Include a separate title page with your name, the course, the assignment, and the date. For 
Module 1 and 2 Concept Application papers, please also include the concept you have 
chosen.   
• Pay attention to the word count guidelines and maximums. Ensuring that you hit the 
length requirements of your audience is always part of effective writing and the evalu-
ation of your work, be it an academic assignment, a report for your manager, an op -ed 
column, or a grant application.  
• Citing sources: Remember that any time you incorporate ideas or concepts that are not 
your own, make sure that you cite the source. This includes both course materials (text-
book and/or lecture slides) and any work produced by an AI tool, for assignments where 
AI use has been approved. Always include full citations in a separate reference page. 
Proper referencing is critical, both to support academic integrity and as a way to signal 
your understanding of/clear connections to course content. 
Grading Method 
In this course, some components will be graded using numerical percentage marks.  Other com-
ponents will receive letter grades, which for purposes of calculating your course average will be 
translated into numerical equivalents using the Faculty of Arts and  Science approved scale (see 
below). Your course average will then be converted to a final letter grade according to Queen’s 
Official Grade Conversion Scale (see below). 
  
Arts & Science Letter Grade Input Scheme             Queen’s Official Grade Conversion Scale     
            
  Assignment      
       Mark 
Numerical value for calcu-
lation of final mark  
  
Grade 
 
Numerical Course Average 
(Range) 
          A+ 93  A+ 90-100 
         A 87           A 85-89 
         A- 82           A- 80-84 
         B+ 78           B+ 77-79 
         B 75           B 73-76 
         B- 72           B- 70-72 
         C+ 68           C+ 67-69 
         C 65           C 63-66 
         C- 62           C- 60-62 
         D+ 58           D+ 57-59 
         D 55           D 53-56 
         D- 52           D- 50-52 
     F48 (F+) 48           F 49 and below  
      F24 (F) 24    
       F0 (0) 0    
--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
Late Policy  
An assignment submitted after the deadline  will be subject to a small late penalty (5%) for each 
day or part thereof, unless a student has made an alternative arrangement with me. Con-
sistent application of this policy is important from an equity perspective and meeting deadlines is 
an important professional competency (as is giving yourself a buffer for all the things that can go 
wrong with technology!).  
If circumstances arise that are outside of your control but impact your ability to meet deadlines, 
please apply for Academic Consideration due to Extenuating Circumstances (see more below) as 
needed. Reach out to me in advance of any deadlines if your circumstances do not fit ! The key is 
to communicate with me, as your instructor, as you would with a manager. If circumstances arise 
and you need more time, we can discuss an extension that works for all.  
*Note:  If you have a letter of accommodation (LOA) through QSAS that includes an up to 7 day 
extension on assignments, reaching out in advance of the deadline to request that extension is 
still required, in line with QSAS guidelines (see more here). QSAS provides a helpful template 
for students to use when making the extension request to ensure that all information is included 
in the email.  
 
Re-Marking Request Policy 
Requests for assignment regrading may be made to your TA starting 48 hours after you have re-
ceived the marked copy of your assignment, but no more than 10 days later. It is important to 
take the time to review your feedback, the assignment instructions, rubrics, and relevant material 
before you respond and contact your TA. To request that your assignment be remarked, please 
submit a completed copy of the re-mark request form (available onQ) along with the original 
copy of your marked assignment to your TA. 
Location and Timing of Final Examinations  
The final exam will take place during the final exam period in April. The exam dates for each 
Term are listed on the Faculty of Arts and Science webpage under “ Important Dates.” For the 
Winter Term, exam schedules are posted on the Friday before Reading Week.  Students should 
delay finalizing any travel plans until after the examination schedule has been posted.  Ex-
ams will not be moved or deferred to accommodate employment, travel/holiday plans or 
flight reservations.   
Fostering Accessibility  
All of us have a shared responsibility for reducing barriers to learning and fostering accessibility 
and promoting meaningful inclusion of those with disabilities. The Accessibility Hub at Queen’s 
University’s Human Rights & Equity Office offer a host of tutorials that provide us all with prac-
tical tips for: 
• creating accessible documents, e.g., to submit to your teaching team or share with peers 
in peer feedback activities/in a presentation, 
• emails, e.g., while communicating with group members or your teaching team, and  
• meeting practices (e.g., in tutorials/labs/seminars or virtual meetings.    
Important University Dates    
Please visit the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Sessional Dates website for all academic deadlines. 
 
 
--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
Name/Pronoun 
 
If, for whatever reason, you wish to change how your name appears in onQ and/or on class lists, 
please follow these steps. You may also use this process to add your pronouns to the appearance 
of your name. 
 
1. Log into SOLUS. 
2. Click on Personal Information tab. 
3. Click on the Names tab 
4. Click on the Add New Name tab  
5. Choose Preferred from the Name Type drop down menu 
6. Enter the name you would like to appear in onQ and/or on class lists. 
7. Click Save. 
 
Please allow 24 to 48 hours for your name to be registered within the system. If you have further 
questions or concerns, please contact ITS at Queen’s University. 
Land Acknowledgement    
Queen’s University is situated on the territory of the Haudenosaunee and Anishinaabek.  
Ne Queen’s University e’tho nón:we nikanónhsote tsi nón:we ne Haudenosaunee táhnon An-
ishinaabek tehatihsnonhsáhere ne onhwéntsya. Gimaakwe Gchi-gkinoomaagegamig atemagad 
Naadowe miinwaa Anishinaabe aking. 
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity Statement 
Queen’s University recognizes that the values of equity and diversity are vital to and in harmony 
with its educational mission and standards of excellence. It acknowledges that direct, indirect, 
and systemic discrimination exists within our institutional structures, policies, and practices and 
in our community. These take many forms and work to differentially advantage and disadvantage 
persons across social identities such as race, ethnicity, disability, gender identity, sexual orienta-
tion, faith, and socioeconomic status, among other examples. In this class I will work to promote 
an anti-discriminatory, anti-racist and accountable environment where everyone feels welcome. 
Every member of this class is asked to show respect for every other member. 
 
Academic Integrity 
 
Queen’s students, faculty, administrators and staff all have responsibilities for upholding the fun-
damental values of academic integrity; honesty, trust, fairness, respect, responsibility and cour-
age (see www.academicintegrity.org). These values are central to the building, nurturing and sus-
taining of an academic community in which all members of the community will thrive. Adher-
ence to the values expressed through academic integrity forms a foundation for the "freedom of 
inquiry and exchange of ideas" essential to the intellectual life of the University (see the Senate 
Report on Principles and Priorities http://www.queensu.ca/secretariat/policies/senate/report-prin-
ciples-and-priorities). 
 
Students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with the regulations concerning academic 
integrity and for ensuring that their assignments and their behaviour conform to the principles of 
--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
academic integrity. Information on academic integrity is available in the Arts and Science Calen-
dar (see Academic Regulation 1 http://www.queensu.ca/artsci/academic-calendars/regula-
tions/academic-regulations/regulation-1), on the Arts and Science website (see 
https://www.queensu.ca/artsci/students-at-queens/academic-integrity), and from the instructor of 
this course. Departures from academic integrity include plagiarism, use of unauthorized materi-
als, facilitation, forgery and falsification, and are antithetical to the development of an academic 
community at Queen's. Given the seriousness of these matters, actions which contravene the reg-
ulation on academic integrity carry sanctions that can range from a warning or the loss of grades 
on an assignment to the failure of a course to a requirement to withdraw from the university.  
 
Please note that I have had issues in the past with unintended plagiarism. Regardless of how and 
where you retrieve information, the principles of academic integrity apply. Please visit these 
helpful websites to help you make sure that you are able to write things in your own words: 
• https://www.queensu.ca/academicintegrity/students/avoiding-plagiarismcheating 
• https://integrity.mit.edu/handbook/academic-writing/avoiding-plagiarism-paraphrasing 
• http://writing.wisc.edu/Handbook/QPA_paraphrase.html 
 
Statement on Use of Artificial Intelligence 
 
Students must submit their own work and cite the work that is not theirs. Generative AI writing 
tools such as ChatGPT are only permissible when explicitly noted in the assignment instructions, 
and for specific and limited use. Where permitted, be sure to cite any material generated by the 
AI tool. Any other use constitutes a departure from academic integrity. 
 
Technology  
 
• onQ performs best when using the most recent version of the web browsers, Chrome or 
Firefox. Safari and Edge are strongly discouraged as these web browsers are known to 
cause issues with onQ. 
• When possible, work with the most recent versions of software including web browsers, 
Java, Flash and Adobe Reader.  
• While wired internet connection is encouraged, we recognize that students may be relying 
on a wireless connection. A minimum download speed of 10 Mbps and up to 20 Mbps for 
multimedia is recommended.  To test your internet speed, https://www.speedtest.net/  
• For technology support ranging from setting up your device, issues with onQ to installing 
software, contact ITS Support Centre  https://www.queensu.ca/its/itsc 
 
Copyright of Course Materials 
 
Course materials created by the course instructor, including all slides, presentations, handouts, 
tests, exams, and other similar course materials, are the intellectual property of the instructor. It 
is a departure from academic integrity to distribute, publicly post, sell or otherwise disseminate 
an instructor’s course materials or to provide an instructor’s course materials to anyone else for 
distribution, posting, sale or other means of dissemination, without the instructor’s express con-
--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
sent.  A student who engages in such conduct may be subject to penalty for a departure from aca-
demic integrity and may also face adverse legal consequences for infringement of intellectual 
property rights.  
 
Accommodations for Disabilities 
 
Queen's University is committed to achieving full accessibility for people with disabilities. Part 
of this commitment includes arranging academic accommodations for students with disabilities 
to ensure they have an equitable opportunity to participate in all of their academic activities. The 
Senate Policy for Accommodations for Students with Disabilities was approved at Senate in No-
vember 2016.  If you are a student with a disability and think you may need academic accommo-
dations, you are strongly encouraged to contact the  Queen's Student Accessibility Services 
(QSAS) and register as early as possible.  For more information, including important deadlines, 
please visit the QSAS website at:  http://www.queensu.ca/studentwellness/accessibility-services/  
 
 
Academic Consideration for Extenuating Circumstances  
 
Queen’s University is committed to providing academic consideration to students experiencing 
extenuating circumstances that are beyond their control and are interfering with their ability to 
complete academic requirements related to a course for a short period of time. The Senate Policy 
on Academic Consideration for Students in Extenuating Circumstances is available at   
http://www.queensu.ca/secretariat/sites/webpublish.queensu.ca.uslcwww/files/files/policies/sen-
ateandtrustees/Academic%20Considerations%20for%20Extenuating%20Circumstances%20Pol-
icy%20Final.pdf  
 
Each Faculty has developed a protocol to provide a consistent and equitable approach in dealing 
with requests for academic consideration for students facing extenuating circumstances.  Arts 
and Science undergraduate students can find the Faculty of Arts an d Science protocol and the 
portal where a request can be submitted at: http://www.queensu.ca/artsci/accommodations. Stu-
dents in other Faculties and Schools who are enrolled in this course should refer to the protocol 
for their home Faculty. 
 
Building a Classroom Community 
University is a place to share, question, and challenge ideas. Each student brings a different set of 
lived experiences. You can help to create a safer, more respectful classroom community for 
learners by following these guidelines: 
• Make a personal commitment to learn about, understand, and support your peers.  
• Assume the best of others and expect the best of them.  
• Recognize and value the experiences, abilities, and knowledge each person brings to the 
course. 
• Acknowledge the impact of oppression on other people's lives and make sure your words 
and tone are respectful and inclusive. 
• Encourage others to develop and share their ideas. 
--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
• Pay close attention to what your peers say/write before you respond. Think through and 
re-read what you have written before you post online or send your comments to others. 
• Be open to having your ideas challenged and challenge others with the intent of facilitat-
ing growth.  
• Look for opportunities to agree with one another, building on and intentionally referenc-
ing peers’ thoughts and ideas; disagree with ideas without making personal attacks, de-
meaning, or embarrassing others. 
• In this course, we will be intentionally building community through the learning teams, 
mini-assignments, and Friday sessions. Make sure that you include communicating 
openly and directly with your team members as part of this effort!  
 
 
 
 

===== FILE: UPDATED EMPR 270 Weekly Guide Winter 2026.pdf =====
PAGES: 2

--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 1 
 
EMPR 270: INTRO TO ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR  
UPDATED Weekly Guide – Winter 2026  
Queen’s University 
Professor Jacoba Lilius 
 
 
 
 
 
Week  
 
 
 
Topic 
 
 
 
Readings  
 
 
Deliverables with Deadlines  
For consistency and to support our work in 
the Friday class, mini-assignments in this 
course are due by 10 PM EST on 
Thursdays.  
 
All other key assignments will be due on 
Fridays @ 10 PM EST (i.e., Module 1 & 2 
papers, Team Charter, Team Project).  
 
 
Week 1 
 
 
Introduction to OB  
 
Chapter 1 
 
 
 
Week 1 Mini-Assignment   
 
 
MODULE 1: INDIVIDUAL BEHAVIOR AND PROCESSES  
 
 
Week 2 
 
 
Individual Differences: 
Personality, and Values  
 
Chapter 2  
 
 
Week 2 Mini-Assignment 
 
 
 
Week 3 
 
 
Perceiving Ourselves 
and Others  
 
Chapter 3 
 
 
 
Week 3 Mini-Assignment 
 
Week 4 
 
Emotions, Attitudes, 
and Stress 
Chapter 4 
 
 
Week 4 Mini Assignment 
 
 
Week 5  
 
Motivation: Theoretical 
Foundations  
Chapter 5 Week 5 Mini-Assignment 
 
 
Week 6 
 
Motivation: Applied 
Performance Practices 
Chapter 6 
 
Week 6 Mini-Assignment 
 
Module 1 Concept Application Paper 
(Friday, February 13, 10 PM) 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 2 
 
MODULE 2: TEAM/INTERPERSONAL PROCESSES  
 
 
Week 7 
 
 
 
Decision-Making &  
Team Dynamics 
 
 
 
Chapter 7 & 8 
 
 
 
Week 7 Mini-Assignment 
 
 
 
 
Week 8 
 
 
Communication and 
Conflict 
 
 
 
Chapters 9 & 11 
 
 
 
Week 8 Mini-Assignment 
 
Team Charter (Friday, March 6, 10 PM) 
Week 9 
 
Power, Influence, and 
Leadership 
Chapters 10 & 12 
 
 
Week 9 Mini-Assignment 
 
Module 2 Concept Application Paper 
(Friday, March 13, 10 PM) 
 
 
MODULE 3: ORGANIZATION AL PROCESSES 
 
 
Week 10  
 
 
 
Designing 
Organizational 
Structures 
 
 
Chapter 13 
 
 
 
Week 10 Mini-Assignment 
 
 
 
 
Week 11  
 
 
Understanding 
Organizational Culture 
 
 
Chapter 14 
 
 
 
 
Week 11 Mini-Assignment 
 
 
 
Week 12  
 
Organizational Change 
 
Chapter 15 
 
 
 
Week 12 Mini-Assignment 
 
Team Project (Friday, April 3, 10 PM) 
 
Team Member Contribution Evaluation 
 
 
 